<!-- @@@title:Receiving Syslog Events@@@ -->

## LogZilla’s Syslog-ng Configuration

LogZilla supports customization of its *syslog-ng* configuration.
Although it is available, it is not recommended due to its complexity
and the complications it may introduce to the LogZilla installation.

There are two ways to customize the *syslog-ng* configuration:

### Editing `/etc/logzilla/syslog-ng/config.yaml`

This is a *yaml* file, and it is used to generate main config for the syslog-ng
container. 

It contains some generic settings, and list of sources and destinations. Many
of the values are automatically generated by LogZilla (often based on the
`logzilla config` settings) and should not be modified, but there are some
parts that can be customized.

The only generic setting that can be customized is `extra_log_rules`. This
contains a string, that will be put in the `log` section of the main syslog
config, between list of sources and list of destinations. This can be used to
add some extra filters or rewrites - in conjunction with adding extra files
(defining these filter or rewrites) in `/etc/logzilla/syslog-ng/conf.d`
directory.

#### Destinations

Only two types of destination are supported, first is `logzilla`, which is
dedicated for sending events to LogZilla, and probably you should not change or
add anything of this type.

The second type is `file`, which can be used for writing events to a file, and
you can use it for your own purposes, in particular with some templates and
filters defined in `/etc/logzilla/syslog-ng/conf.d` directory.

If you just want to dump all events to a file, you can use configuration
options as described in [Debugging Event Reception](/help/receiving_data/debugging_event_reception#set-logzillas-syslog-container-to-debug-mode).

For each destination you should define following fields:
- `name` - name of the destination, this is used in the main config and should
  be unique for each destination
- `enabled` - boolean value, if set to `True` then this destination will be
  used, otherwise it will be ignored
- `type` - type of the destination, in our case `file`
- `path` - path to the file, remember this is path inside container, so usually
  you'd want to use something in `/var/log/logzilla` directory as it is mounted
  from the host
- `template` - template defining how to format each event, usually this
  requires defining your own template in some file in the 
  `/etc/logzilla/syslog-ng/conf.d` - remember that when defining own templates,
  they should be named with `t_logzilla_` prefix, which is automatically added
  to the name defined in this field.
  
  You can use also one of the predefined templates:
  - `json` - formats event as JSON object
  - `debug_tsv` - dump only timestamp, name of the source and original message
    in tab-separated format
  - `pci_tsv` - dump only original message

#### Sources

This can be a bit more useful for customization, as you can define your own
ports and dedicate it to particular sources. With a special directive you can
assign some tags to events coming from this source, and then use this tag to
optimize parsing of these events in rules and apps.

Standard ports are provided by default configuration which should not be
changed - these are:

- `bsd` - tcp on port 514 (or other defined by config SYSLOG_BSD_TCP_PORT),
    for BSD-style syslog messages
- `bsd_udp` - udp on port 514 (or other defined by config SYSLOG_BSD_UDP_PORT),
    for BSD-style syslog messages using UDP
- `rfc5424` - tcp on port 601 (or other defined by config SYSLOG_RFC5424_PORT),
    for RFC5424-style syslog messages
- `json` - tcp on port 515 (or other defind by config SYSLOG_JSON_PORT),
    for sending raw JSON messages (newline separated) with a TCP connection.
- `tls` - tcp on port 6514 (or other defined by config SYSLOG_TLS_PORT),
    it's the same as rfc5424, but with TLS encryption
- `raw` - tcp on port 516 (or other defined by config SYSLOG_RAW_PORT),
    for sources not complying to the syslog standard, here no parsing is
    performed and the raw message is sent to LogZilla as is.
- `raw_udp` - udp on port 516 (or other defined by config SYSLOG_RAW_UDP_PORT),
    same as raw - without parsing, message is sent to LogZilla as is.

User can define any extra ports by adding new entries to the `sources` array,
each definition should contain following fields:
- `name` - name of the source, this is used in the main config and should
    be unique for each destination
- `enabled` - boolean value, if set to `True` then this source will be
    used, otherwise it will be ignored
- `type` - type of the source, two values are supported, `network` and
    `syslog`, see syslog-ng documentation for more details on these
- `port` - port number to listen on
- `transport` - transport protocol, `tcp` or `udp` (`tcp` is default), also
    `tls` can be specified for TLS-encrypted TCP connection
- `tls_cert_file` - path to the certificate file, this is used only when
    `transport` is set to `tls`
- `tls_key_file` - path to the key file, this is used only when `transport`
    is set to `tls`
- `flags` - list of flags which are passed to syslog-ng, see syslog-ng
    documentation for more details
- `program_override` - here you can specify name that will be set to the
    `program` field of the event
- `extra_fields` - this is dictionary (object) with key-value pairs that
    will be added to the event's extra_fields dictionary
- `source_tag` - this is a string, which can be used to specify a tag that will
  be added to all events (in the `extra_fields._source_tag`) that are received
  from this source. This can be used to optimize parsing of these events in
  some apps - as for the version 6.32 this is used in the vmware app.

### Defining `source_tag` in sources

Starting from version 6.32, you can optimize parsing of these events by
enabling dedicated source for some apps. If any of the LUA rules defines
`SOURCE_FILTER` variable in its body, **and** there's a source with
`source_tag` set to that value, then this rule will be applied only to events
from this source.

For example - if you enable SYSLOG_VMWARE_PORT by setting it to any port number
greater then 0, it will be automatically added to the list of sources with a
`source_tag` set to `vmware`. Then only events from this port will be parsed by vmware app.

Please note, that filtering works only if there's a source with `source_tag`
with a corresponding value - so if you install vmware app, but you don't have a
dedicated source for vmware events, then all events will be parsed by the app
(which can results in significant performance degradation).

If you need some custom dedicated sources (e.g. for your custom rules/apps),
then remember to add your source tag to the `DEDICATED_SOURCES` configuration
option (with `logzilla config DEDICATED_SOURCES` command line), so the parser
will know that only events with this tag should be parsed by the app. For the
VMWare app this setting is extended automatically with "vmware" if you enable
`SYSLOG_VMWARE_PORT`.

### Adding extra files in `/etc/logzilla/syslog-ng/conf.d` directory

For more complex cases you can add any `*.conf` files in this directory, and
they will be included in the main config. This can be used to add some extra
*syslog-ng* *sources*, *destinations*, *filters*, or *rewrite rules*. To
accomplish this:

1.  Create a `xxx.conf` file (where `xxx` is the desired name) in the
    `/etc/logzilla/syslog-ng/conf.d` directory. (More than one of these
    files can be created, as desired, and they can all take effect.)
2.  Add configuration directives appropriate for *source*,
    *destination*, *filter*, or *rewrite rule* to the new `xxx.conf`
    file. These should follow standard *syslog-ng* syntax (more
    information can be found at [syslog-ng Open Source Edition 3.22 -
    Administration
    Guide](https://www.syslog-ng.com/technical-documents/doc/syslog-ng-open-source-edition/3.22/administration-guide/12)).
3.  **Important**: Custom `log` entries should **not** be created or
    configured. It is required that the `log` section be modified only
    by LogZilla, or LogZilla may cease receiving events.

If `log` customization is desired, such as adding new *filters* or
*rewrites*, then see below for detailed instructions.

For the basic cases, like adding new destinations or sources, adding a
file in `conf.d` is enough. All sources and destinations defined in
these files will be implicitly added to the main config. If this is all
you need, then restart syslog-ng as described below.

For some advanced cases, like when you want to add some extra filters,
then `/etc/logzilla/syslog-ng/config.yaml` should be modified. In particular,
if extra *syslog-ng* configuration directives are needed, they should be
added to the `extra_log_rules` entry in this file.

### Custom Configuration Example

In this example, a special source reading from an MQTT broker will be
added. In addition, these log messages will be filtered such that the
only log messages handled are those from host `1.2.3.4`.

First, create the file `/etc/logzilla/syslog-ng/conf.d/mqtt.conf` with
the following content:

    source s_mqtt {
        mqtt(
            address("tcp://my-mqtt-server:4444")
            topic("test/abc")
        );
    };

    filter f_host_1234 {
        host("1.2.3.4");
    };

As we want to also add some extra filters, we need to modify the *yaml*
configuration file `/etc/logzilla/syslog-ng/config.yaml`.

Find the `extra_log_rules` setting (it’s an empty string by default) and
update it:

    extra_log_rules: "filter(f_host_1234);"

### Restarting syslog-ng after changes

After any changes are made to the *syslog-ng* configuration, LogZilla’s
*syslog-ng* module must be restarted. This can be accomplished via
`logzilla restart -c syslog`. If proper operation is not observed or for
more information, the *syslog-ng* operation logs can
